docs/rf24_mesh_api.rst, before:

RF24Mesh API
============

.. automodule:: pyrf24.rf24_mesh

RF24Mesh class
**************

.. autoclass:: pyrf24.rf24_mesh.RF24Mesh

    Basic RF24Mesh API
    ------------------

    .. automethod:: __init__
    .. automethod:: begin
    .. automethod:: update
    .. automethod:: write
    .. autoattribute:: node_id
    .. automethod:: renew_address

    Advanced RF24Mesh API
    ---------------------

    .. automethod:: check_connection
    .. autoattribute:: mesh_address
    .. automethod:: release_address
    .. automethod:: get_node_id
    .. automethod:: get_address
    .. automethod:: set_address
    .. automethod:: set_channel
    .. automethod:: set_child
    .. autoattribute:: addr_list

AddrListStruct class
********************

The properties of this class are read-only because they can only be set by the master node upon
successful connection to a child node.

.. hint::
    The `AddrListStruct` class supports the python "magic method" :py:func:`repr()`. So, you can
    easily pass an instantiated `AddrListStruct` object to the :py:func:`print()` function.

.. autoclass:: pyrf24.rf24_mesh.AddrListStruct
    
    .. autoattribute:: node_id
    .. autoattribute:: address

Mesh Constants
**************

These are the pre-defined constants provided for convenience and code readability.

.. autoattribute:: pyrf24.rf24_mesh.MESH_DEFAULT_ADDRESS

    A reserved valid address for use with RF24Mesh (when a mesh node requests an assigned address)

Reserved System Message Types
-----------------------------

.. autoattribute:: pyrf24.rf24_mesh.MESH_ADDR_LOOKUP

    This message type is used to fetch (from the master node) an allocated Logical
    Address (`mesh_address`) corresponding to specified a mesh node's
    :py:attr:`~RF24Mesh.node_id`.

    This is exclusively used by `get_address()`.

.. autoattribute:: pyrf24.rf24_mesh.MESH_ID_LOOKUP

    This message type is used to fetch (from the master node) a mesh node's
    :py:attr:`~RF24Mesh.node_id` corresponding to an specified Logical Address
    (`mesh_address`).

    This is exclusively used by `get_node_id()`.

.. autoattribute:: pyrf24.rf24_mesh.MESH_ADDR_RELEASE

    This message type is used when mesh nodes are consciously disconnecting from the
    network. It is used to unassign the Logical Address allocated the mesh node's
    :py:attr:`~RF24Mesh.node_id`.

    This is exclusively used by `release_address()`.

Commit message:

update submodules and docs (#17)
* update submodules and docs

Yet another regular maintenance update. The  changes include:
- update RF24 to v1.4.7
- update RF24Network to v2.0.0
- update RF24Mesh to v2.0.0
- update pybind11 to v2.10.4
- fix .gitattributes file messing with png files
- fix pylint deprecation warnings about old config settings

Updates to the docs include necessary changes to the docs' conf.py and adding social media cards to the metadata for each page. The social media cards are generated per the newly added layout.yml file/spec (included in these changes).

docs/rf24_mesh_api.rst, after:

:description: How to use the radio as a dynamic mesh network node.

RF24Mesh API
============

.. automodule:: pyrf24.rf24_mesh

RF24Mesh class
**************

.. autoclass:: pyrf24.rf24_mesh.RF24Mesh

    Basic RF24Mesh API
    ------------------

    .. automethod:: __init__
    .. automethod:: begin
    .. automethod:: update
    .. automethod:: write
    .. autoattribute:: node_id
    .. automethod:: renew_address

    Advanced RF24Mesh API
    ---------------------

    .. automethod:: check_connection
    .. autoattribute:: mesh_address
    .. automethod:: release_address
    .. automethod:: get_node_id
    .. automethod:: get_address
    .. automethod:: set_address
    .. automethod:: set_channel
    .. automethod:: set_child
    .. autoattribute:: addr_list

AddrListStruct class
********************

The properties of this class are read-only because they can only be set by the master node upon
successful connection to a child node.

.. hint::
    The `AddrListStruct` class supports the python "magic method" :py:func:`repr()`. So, you can
    easily pass an instantiated `AddrListStruct` object to the :py:func:`print()` function.

.. autoclass:: pyrf24.rf24_mesh.AddrListStruct
    
    .. autoattribute:: node_id
    .. autoattribute:: address

Mesh Constants
**************

These are the pre-defined constants provided for convenience and code readability.

.. autoattribute:: pyrf24.rf24_mesh.MESH_DEFAULT_ADDRESS

    A reserved valid address for use with RF24Mesh (when a mesh node requests an assigned address)

Reserved System Message Types
-----------------------------

.. autoattribute:: pyrf24.rf24_mesh.MESH_ADDR_LOOKUP

    This message type is used to fetch (from the master node) an allocated Logical
    Address (`mesh_address`) corresponding to specified a mesh node's
    :py:attr:`~RF24Mesh.node_id`.

    This is exclusively used by `get_address()`.

.. autoattribute:: pyrf24.rf24_mesh.MESH_ID_LOOKUP

    This message type is used to fetch (from the master node) a mesh node's
    :py:attr:`~RF24Mesh.node_id` corresponding to an specified Logical Address
    (`mesh_address`).

    This is exclusively used by `get_node_id()`.

.. autoattribute:: pyrf24.rf24_mesh.MESH_ADDR_RELEASE

    This message type is used when mesh nodes are consciously disconnecting from the
    network. It is used to unassign the Logical Address allocated the mesh node's
    :py:attr:`~RF24Mesh.node_id`.

    This is exclusively used by `release_address()`.
