docs/rf24_api.rst, before:

:description: How to use the radio's basic functionality.

RF24 API
========

.. automodule:: pyrf24.rf24

Enum classes
------------

.. autoclass:: pyrf24.rf24.rf24_crclength_e
    :members: RF24_CRC_DISABLED, RF24_CRC_8, RF24_CRC_16

.. autoclass:: pyrf24.rf24.rf24_datarate_e
    :members: RF24_1MBPS, RF24_2MBPS, RF24_250KBPS

.. autoclass:: pyrf24.rf24.rf24_pa_dbm_e
    :members: RF24_PA_MIN, RF24_PA_LOW, RF24_PA_HIGH, RF24_PA_MAX

RF24 class
----------

.. autoclass:: pyrf24.rf24.RF24

    Basic RF24 API
    **************
    
    .. automethod:: __init__

    .. automethod:: begin
    .. autoattribute:: listen
    .. automethod:: available
    .. automethod:: read
    .. automethod:: write
    .. automethod:: open_tx_pipe
    .. automethod:: open_rx_pipe

    Advanced RF24 API
    *****************

    .. automethod:: toggle_all_pipes
    .. autoattribute:: is_valid
    .. autoattribute:: is_chip_connected
    .. autoattribute:: is_plus_variant
    .. automethod:: what_happened

    Debugging Helpers
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    .. autoattribute:: failure_detected
    .. automethod:: print_details
    .. automethod:: print_pretty_details
    .. automethod:: sprintf_pretty_details
    .. automethod:: get_arc
    
    Advanced Transmission
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    .. automethod:: write_ack_payload
    .. automethod:: write_fast
    .. automethod:: reuse_tx
    .. automethod:: write_blocking
    .. automethod:: start_fast_write
    .. automethod:: start_write
    .. automethod:: tx_standby

    Power Management
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    .. autoattribute:: power

    FIFO Management
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    .. autoattribute:: rx_fifo_full
    .. automethod:: flush_tx
    .. automethod:: flush_rx
    .. automethod:: is_fifo

    Ambiguous Signal Detection
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    .. autoattribute:: rpd
    .. automethod:: start_const_carrier
    .. automethod:: stop_const_carrier
    
    .. automethod:: available_pipe
    .. automethod:: close_rx_pipe

    Configurable RF24 API
    *********************

    .. autoattribute:: address_width
    .. automethod:: set_retries
    .. automethod:: mask_irq

    Channel (Frequency)
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    .. autoattribute:: channel

    Dynamic Delays
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    .. autoattribute:: tx_delay

    Payload Sizes
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    .. autoattribute:: payload_size
    .. autoattribute:: dynamic_payloads
    .. automethod:: get_dynamic_payload_size
    
    Auto-Acknowledgement
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    .. automethod:: set_auto_ack
    .. autoattribute:: ack_payloads
    .. automethod:: enable_dynamic_ack

    Radiation Options
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    .. automethod:: set_pa_level
    .. autoattribute:: pa_level
    .. autoattribute:: data_rate
    .. automethod:: set_radiation

    CRC Lengths
    ~~~~~~~~~~~

    .. autoattribute:: crc_length

Commit message:

Expose RF24_DRIVER and fix linking to shared utility driver libs (#46)
* expose RF24_DRIVER as rf24-module attr (str)
* switch to ruff (remove dependency on black and pylint)
* fix linking to utility driver shared lib (when needed)
  affects wiringPi, pigpio, MRAA drivers.
  Using these drivers previously to build from source ended up with undefined symbols in the dist.

docs/rf24_api.rst, after:

:description: How to use the radio's basic functionality.

RF24 API
========

.. automodule:: pyrf24.rf24

    .. autoattribute:: pyrf24.rf24.RF24_DRIVER

        This `str` describes the backend driver used to build the pyrf24 package.
        If installed from pypi, then this value should be ``"SPIDEV"``.
        
        All other drivers imply that the pyrf24 package was built from source
        :ref:`using-specific-driver`.

        .. hint::

            Use this attribute to determine programmatically which pin numbers to use.
            Drivers like ``wiringPi`` and ``MRAA`` use their own pin numbering scheme.

Enum classes
------------

.. autoclass:: pyrf24.rf24.rf24_crclength_e
    :members: RF24_CRC_DISABLED, RF24_CRC_8, RF24_CRC_16

.. autoclass:: pyrf24.rf24.rf24_datarate_e
    :members: RF24_1MBPS, RF24_2MBPS, RF24_250KBPS

.. autoclass:: pyrf24.rf24.rf24_pa_dbm_e
    :members: RF24_PA_MIN, RF24_PA_LOW, RF24_PA_HIGH, RF24_PA_MAX

RF24 class
----------

.. autoclass:: pyrf24.rf24.RF24

    Basic RF24 API
    **************
    
    .. automethod:: __init__

    .. automethod:: begin
    .. autoattribute:: listen
    .. automethod:: available
    .. automethod:: read
    .. automethod:: write
    .. automethod:: open_tx_pipe
    .. automethod:: open_rx_pipe

    Advanced RF24 API
    *****************

    .. automethod:: toggle_all_pipes
    .. autoattribute:: is_valid
    .. autoattribute:: is_chip_connected
    .. autoattribute:: is_plus_variant
    .. automethod:: what_happened

    Debugging Helpers
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    .. autoattribute:: failure_detected
    .. automethod:: print_details
    .. automethod:: print_pretty_details
    .. automethod:: sprintf_pretty_details
    .. automethod:: get_arc
    
    Advanced Transmission
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    .. automethod:: write_ack_payload
    .. automethod:: write_fast
    .. automethod:: reuse_tx
    .. automethod:: write_blocking
    .. automethod:: start_fast_write
    .. automethod:: start_write
    .. automethod:: tx_standby

    Power Management
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    .. autoattribute:: power

    FIFO Management
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    .. autoattribute:: rx_fifo_full
    .. automethod:: flush_tx
    .. automethod:: flush_rx
    .. automethod:: is_fifo

    Ambiguous Signal Detection
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    .. autoattribute:: rpd
    .. automethod:: start_const_carrier
    .. automethod:: stop_const_carrier
    
    .. automethod:: available_pipe
    .. automethod:: close_rx_pipe

    Configurable RF24 API
    *********************

    .. autoattribute:: address_width
    .. automethod:: set_retries
    .. automethod:: mask_irq

    Channel (Frequency)
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    .. autoattribute:: channel

    Dynamic Delays
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    .. autoattribute:: tx_delay

    Payload Sizes
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    .. autoattribute:: payload_size
    .. autoattribute:: dynamic_payloads
    .. automethod:: get_dynamic_payload_size
    
    Auto-Acknowledgement
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    .. automethod:: set_auto_ack
    .. autoattribute:: ack_payloads
    .. automethod:: enable_dynamic_ack

    Radiation Options
    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

    .. automethod:: set_pa_level
    .. autoattribute:: pa_level
    .. autoattribute:: data_rate
    .. automethod:: set_radiation

    CRC Lengths
    ~~~~~~~~~~~

    .. autoattribute:: crc_length
